# Heart-Disease-Prediction
ABSTRACT
Machine Learning is used across many ranges around the world. The healthcare industry is no exclusion. Machine Learning can play an essential role in predicting presence/absence of locomotors disorders, Heart diseases and more. Such information, if predicted well in advance, can provide important intuitions to doctors who can then adapt their diagnosis and dealing per patient basis. We work on predicting possible Heart Diseases in people using Machine Learning algorithms. In this project we perform the comparative analysis of classifiers like decision tree, Naïve Bayes, Logistic Regression, SVM and Random Forest and we propose an ensemble classifier which perform hybrid classification by taking strong and weak classifiers since it can have multiple number of samples for training and validating the data so we perform the analysis of existing classifier and proposed classifier like Ada-boost and XG-boost which can give the better accuracy and predictive analysis.

INTRODUCTION
According to the World Health Organization, every year 12 million deaths occur worldwide due to Heart Disease. Heart disease is one of the biggest causes of morbidity and mortality among the population of the world. Prediction of cardiovascular disease is regarded as one of the most important subjects in the section of data analysis. The load of cardiovascular disease is rapidly increasing all over the world from the past few years. Many researches have been conducted in attempt to pinpoint the most influential factors of heart disease as well as accurately predict the overall risk. Heart Disease is even highlighted as a silent killer which leads to the death of the person without obvious symptoms. The early diagnosis of heart disease plays a vital role in making decisions on lifestyle changes in high-risk patients and in turn reduces the complications. 
Machine learning proves to be effective in assisting in making decisions and predictions from the large quantity of data produced by the health care industry. This project aims to predict future Heart Disease by analyzing data of patients which classifies whether they have heart disease or not using machine-learning algorithm. Machine Learning techniques can be a boon in this regard. Even though heart disease can occur in different forms, there is a common set of core risk factors that influence whether someone will ultimately be at risk for heart disease or not. By collecting the data from various sources, classifying them under suitable headings & finally analyzing to extract the desired data we can say that this technique can be very well adapted to do the prediction of heart disease.
